so now we're going to get started so
we'll just start with the list so
kangaroo we were talking a little bit so
I guess let's just start with this or
you dating someone right now no not
currently
okay and is that how do you feel about
that kind of sucks okay yeah that's a
very honest answer what sucks about it
I think it's that
[Music]
my days I'm spending either working
learning something studying
it's kind of like always doing something
alone huh even when I'm you even I'm
working it's usually things like I'm
following a doctor around or I'm seeing
a patient but it's still just me hmm on
my own doing all that come home and I
study every room alone you know get
online I'm still alone in the room even
if I talk to friends or something like
that still mean on my own okay so and
I've never had that experience of like
having a real girlfriend but I always
seeing people you know really seem to
enjoy it
there's kind of that I do not feel like
I'm missing something out but not and
and so it I mean it sounds like most of
what you feel is lonely yeah yeah and so
what do you think it is that's gotten in
the way of you finding kind of what you
see other people have
I always thought it was just kind of
where I was hmm
at Rice back when I'm in college that
was definitely gaming but to my way to
minigames and aqua did not meet anyone
hmm
after that it was just mostly just felt
like work you know once I got into the
master's program into med school it's
like I didn't have time even consider
anything we're all so I fell out of
classes just oh it was tough yeah yeah I
mean I think um you know that's really
true at school is pretty intensive do
people date in med school they do yeah
okay how does that work and no idea yeah
it's kind of interesting right I mean
you're saying that here you are in med
school and it's like it's hard right
they can learn a lot and the pace is
really intense and so if we kind of
think a little bit about what is it that
prevents you from dating your answer as
well I work too much but then there's a
part of me that kind of pauses and
thinks about that because you know a lot
of people work a lot right and they find
relationships I think the way I see it
usually is that
in med school you either come in with a
relationship that you continue or you
find one within your own class listens
with other doctors or maybe we meet on
the job mmm
I just didn't think I found anyone like
that okay so you haven't found the right
person yeah
so when you're thinking about having a
relationship your idea is that basically
someone is going to come along and then
it's gonna click not exactly not what
kind of I guess I think it's the idea
that
I have to meet multiple people but there
will be someone there will be some
people have mesh with a lot more than
other people I said meant a lot of those
types eeeh
okay so you just haven't been able to
meet someone that you mesh with yes okay
why do you think that is
what goes into meeting people at measure
new things that the way that other
people will be doing at the same time
okay you do that I started to like what
conventions which con coming up anime
conventions gaming conventions also
putting a lot more Medical conventions
again travel for fourth year and meeting
different people interpret hospitals has
been and other medical students outside
of my own class hmm I think that's been
actually helping a lot when was the last
time you asked someone out actually how
can you tell us a little bit about that
well interesting laughs it wasn't I
didn't expect to ask them out on a date
uh-huh it just felt like after the night
was over we did end up going out okay
yeah wheel 2 movie went to dinner hang
out for a bit and after than I was over
I looked back I was like telling a
friend of mine okay I'm at school person
oh so you went on a date and it kind of
went oh yeah I went on a date did you
ask her out
I asked her to go hang out but I didn't
ask her as like as specifically as a
date okay I just didn't think of that
dink oh no I was like hey you want to go
hang out for a bit what makes you think
that was a day um I think it was
maybe just how much I enjoyed it how
much and like how seem like we both
enjoyed it we wanted to hang out again
is dear so I could but so you're gonna
see her again
I don't know if she's in San Antonio
okay it'll be depending on how the next
couple weeks ago so I'm curious um you
know just just twitch that chat think
that that qualifies as a date or not
let's see so let's kind of come back to
so you I mean but you're saying that you
kind of didn't really ask her out right
well I'll just you just asked to hang
out yeah so unclear whether it was a
date or not a date so sometimes when it
comes to finding a romantic partner like
it can be sometimes I think a big piece
of it is not understanding exactly what
your relationship is with other people
like in terms of his dating or not they
agree as friends photonic are you
getting friend-zoned that is hard to fry
it's hard for me to hear I've never been
able to get that distinction unless I'm
very explicit about it okay and usually
that's never turned out positively for
me
look if I have someone hey do you want
to go on a date they're gonna pause in
response for that uh-huh
how many times have you asked but okay
and so you know I would think that if
someone has been we're just talking
about negative emotion yeah if you put
yourself out there and you've gotten
burned five times that it would make it
very hard for you to ask a sixth girl
out on it it definitely should be looked
at yeah I think the more that I start
realizing I don't I want a relationship
and I'd only care if someone says no
because I can try it again it's the more
I'm starting to do it more ask more
people out like I think it was high
school asked up two people two girls
didn't go well at all
I didn't ask anyone until my master's
program because it's five years later
okay
that didn't wind up working out and then
the next time I did it was my first year
of medical school
after that I think about a big one
how did you feel about the one in
that one harshly worked out we semi
dated for a bit and I got cheated on so
that didn't work out very well so ya
know the reason I asked that question
and so this is great that this is on
camera I wish we could rewind on twitch
chat and your facial expression was
subtly very very different okay for the
one in that school so like the system so
I I think you know I wonder if there's
value in sort of going back and
rewinding and even cutting but I want
you to watch it okay there's just a tiny
tiny flicker of something that suggested
that that one was more emotionally
painful
mmm-hmm so if you got cheated on I guess
that make sense it was not good yeah so
and and so okay so you've asked out a
couple of girls so I think one of the
things that could be kind of I mean I
I'm kind of curious about is we think
about you know what happened in high
school you asked about two girls like
what do you think it was that kept you
from asking out girls in college
girls ecologist I just seemed oh I'd
meet any I was playing video games
old-time friends yeah so I think that's
a typical answer that is probably a
little bit incorrect that my members do
right so what I'm imagining is like so
let's assume I mean maybe you didn't go
out and meet idea I'm sure you gained a
lot when I was gaming a lot in college
do I still ask out girls and got her job
did a fair amount I mean they're
everywhere
right like you're going to class and
they're a girl writer and you could have
asked them out
yeah if I guess I waited I don't I don't
buy that over four years of college you
did not encounter and have interactions
with girls that you did not find
attractive
I did but I remember there were three
girls callers I found attractive all my
boyfriend's couldn't really ask them out
okay so just to kind of think through
this a little bit like so in medicine
you know we talked about differential
diagnosis right so it's if there's a
particular symptom what are all the
things that could be causing the symptom
so in this case I'm just thinking a
little bit about the symptom of not
asking anyone out in college so so far
we've gotten two answers right because
the first one I push back on and now
Simon tells us oh it wasn't so the first
his first answer was oh I didn't have
time to ask any when I was playing too
many videos and when I press you your
answer changes sure do you guys see that
like you see that how that happened so
and his answer is oh I I wanted to ask
them out but they had boyfriends so I
did now that's like a very different
answer it's not that I wasn't attracted
to people oh yeah it's that they weren't
available but the what you tell us and
probably seduce them to be what you tell
yourself is that it's because they it's
because I was playing - in video games
and so the interesting thing is that you
know I see this a lot with gamers when I
sort of we start to dig in and kind of
really think a little bit about dating
and why you ask girls out why or you
know the case it sounds like it's
sclusively girls um but when you're sort
of interested in someone and like we
come up with answers but I would imagine
I can just like put myself in in my own
shoes and just thinking a little bit
about you know if I asked two girls out
in high school like high school is a
pretty pretty psychologically fragile
time and you know if I'm asking two
girls out and they say no I think it's
gonna be very difficult from a
confidence perspective to be able to ask
girls out in college like it's gonna
take time or energy or effort or
something is really gonna have to change
for me to overcome that huh
and the really tricky thing about that
is that I'm not getting that sense for
me like I'm not getting any I mean
whether it was true or not true in your
case we're not really sure but what I'm
definitely not getting is any awareness
of that fact right that that what it was
is maybe a lack of confidence like there
were three girls you were trying
do you know it's you know not to say
that you should try to interfere with
someone's relationship but sometimes
people ask out people who are in
relationships yeah right and I'm not I'm
not trying to put a value judgment on
whether that's a good idea or a bad idea
um but maybe it's disrespectful but so
it's kind of interesting and then the
other thing that I kind of want to
fast-forward to is you said something
pretty interesting which is that like
recently you stopped caring and you
should share a little bit about that I
think it's it goes to the competence
idea um I feel like I'm at a point where
I guess I'm a good catch is why well I'm
in my mind I'm pretty decent catching up
pretty good pretty good guy overall
decent education decent background good
really nice family
very nice oh sorry definitely so I just
I don't feel like
I don't feel like anyone would be
missing anything
dating me yes
you guys notice how he didn't comment on
his physical appearance
so so what we can imply from that is
that you may be he may have some
concerns about his physical and it's
right because when when kangaroo is
talking about why he's a catch he
doesn't say anything about its physical
appearance
how did you sit thing down a lot really
but I didn't have a great self-image
I think it's been improving that's
probably not where I want you to be good
so the other thing is would you feel
comfortable talking about that or is
that yeah what do you think about how
you look
honestly I think I'm a little overweight
from playing around in the face little
pushier that I'd like to be then I used
to be
I think that's the main main idea okay
and
what do you say used to be so view is
there been some since there's been a
change do you feel like that's come with
a change in your confidence too
I'm actually not sure
[Music]
most of the change happen second to
third year college so I'm not I think I
already had some poppin issues that then
that weren't related to the way it
looked and they may be evolved into or
maybe
the lock was pulled into that eventually
yeah so you know that's a really
interesting idea
because you're almost suggesting that
lack of confidence is the origin and it
kind of it's almost like a monster that
like gobbled some concerns around your
appearance and so it's not necessarily
that your appearance leads to a lack of
confidence it's that your lack of
confidence is almost like this
psychological entity within you that
latches on to your appearance and that's
actually a really common way that the
mind works is that we tend to have
feelings and then what happens is our
feelings will come up for justifications
to make them feel more real so for
example you know there's some people
that I work with that are quite
attractive but feel like they're not
attractive at all and what happens is
they'll zero in on the tiniest most
irrational thing about their appearance
because and it doesn't matter how much
you argue with them and you can say like
oh yeah your nose looks fine it's not
too big it's not too small as fine yeah
and that doesn't that doesn't enter into
them if it doesn't like coat so kind of
sink into their head in any way in my
you know a lot actually I get that a lot
from my sister what do you get from that
she's like oh well I hate taking
pictures of myself I hate being in
pictures I don't like having things
taken to me and it's usually because
like you know I don't think I look good
in pictures yeah like I don't think I
look like on video sometimes and I gain
from I say she's like no you're you're
decent looking guy before how do you
keep worrying about that so you know you
look fine stop it yeah no I promise they
tell me that like I understand out like
a rational level but I don't get it
you just it doesn't take in yes so on
what level do you not get it's emotional
right
case in point yeah so this is where the
tricky thing is that you know we've
talked a little bit about like rational
versus emotional so now I think we're
going a little bit off topic but
hopefully this is okay so now the
question becomes okay so like you don't
feel so speaking of what let me just tie
things together so I do believe that
part of the reason that you have not
asked out girls is because you're
concerned about your appearance right
and I think that like the more we talk
about it the more clear it seems to me
yeah that you're concerned about your
appearance and the funny thing is you've
made lots of like rationalizing
statements like you've said like oh yeah
you know I listen used to look better
but I would guess that even if I had
talked to you when you cornered what
looked better that you probably felt the
same way that you do now that material
yeah so the interesting thing is that if
we really pause and look at that even
though there was an objective difference
in the way that you look you're feeling
about the way you look is exactly the
same okay
so now we come to another problem that a
lot of gamers add which is that you know
you think that there's a problem which
is that you don't look good enough and
so you try to improve your appearance
and there's definitely value to working
out and taking care of yourself as a
confidence booster but I would argue
that the root of the problem actually
has nothing to do with the way you look
but has more to do with the way you feel
you look
yeah
and so then the question becomes okay so
like if we can see that what do we do
about
I've been pretty much telling myself
it's not true over and over again how's
that working for you it's hopping a
little bit okay hopping that's why I've
been able to ask more people at
essentially the more times I'm like up
stopping you're being dumb like every
time that thought entered my head
I think it's weird because sometimes
it's like yeah that is like you know I'm
a lot flatter than easy but yeah that is
true but doesn't really matter okay so
now there's a subtle difference in that
state right there's a subtle difference
between arguing with yourself in terms
of invalidating the way that you feel so
if we think about this like let me just
tunnel down and try to make this into
like a math equation from a
psychological perspective so one is that
I feel unattractive and then I can argue
with myself right I can say like oh but
I've worked out and I like I got this
new shirt and I like about this like
hundred dollar haircut you can argue
with yourself and that can help a little
bit but it doesn't seem to help very
much and I would argue that most people
who are watching sometimes have negative
thoughts about themselves and that
they're actually pretty good at arguing
against them but despite arguing against
them that they still struggle with those
those thoughts the interesting thing
though that I think the reason it's
become easier for you is because
somewhere along the way you didn't start
you didn't convince yourself that you're
wrong you stopped caring yeah right so
if we really let tunnel down into what's
idle I mean a kangaroo said he said I
stopped caring or it doesn't matter it
doesn't matter yeah and so there's a
part of you that's actually if you
really think about it like you know so
you didn't mention appearance when
you're talking about your positive
qualities but I think somewhere along
the way and I'd be curious kind of how
you came to this conclusion and we can
sort of see that he's come to this
conclusion because he's started to
realize that like okay even if I'm not
the most attractive guy which he kind of
accepts it doesn't mean that I can't
find a relationship that I still have a
lot of things to offer someone I can be
funny I can be engaging I'm intelligent
I'm a catch I'm doctor know so like that
apparently is supposed to attract a lot
of women
not everything that's cracked up to be
common as if you guys are in med school
you'll learn that lesson the hard way
it's allowed to be a decent human being
yeah and what do you think about that
what do I think about what do you think
about like
actually what's changed in you is not
your perception of how you look but that
you stop you sort of accepted that you
may not be the most attractive guy and
it actually doesn't necessarily affect
how we are going to find relationship or
whether you're going
I think it's been nice like it's kind of
freeing way just not just like its
weight sitting on my mind anymore mm-hmm
I mean it's still there just because I
do see like my best friend just got
married like don't want a girlfriend
well thanks going on but I think it's
just have so many things I'm doing right
now that are going positively I'm like
that I feel like it will come it will
happen
okay do you think that um
so when your girlfriend I mean when your
your best friend gets married and you
kind of think to yourself I still don't
have a girlfriend do you also have the
thought that maybe it's because I'm not
attractive enough
no not in that case room okay all right
it's not I don't know if that would be
is in the past not anymore
what do you think it is that kinda keeps
you from having a girlfriend man
I think it's just the amount of
traveling about to do over the last year
and then once same city from more than
maybe month or two mm-hmm though if I
meet someone it's like yeah hey well
hang out for a bit and then unconscious
another to another state sure by then I
keep talking them acute accent but it's
just it doesn't feel a thing
as you know it's an actual relationship
yeah I mean I think that that that is
really hard if we really think about
relationships you know a lot of times
they have to start you can do
long-distance but you know usually
there's a pretty solid foundation before
you kind of transition
I think I've just been moving around so
much that even if I place I found
someone Santoni I was only there for
four weeks and I met them the last week
I was there at that point I was like all
right hi nice to see you hopefully we'll
keep talking he's still texting with ya
how's that coming oh well we're both
doing a lot though she's on third-year
rotations so she's always running around
and so you know do I get texts much but
we do text when was it that you started
or I guess I should say kind of stopped
caring as much about her
or maybe a better way to put us when did
it that start to impact you less in
terms of you recognizing your value for
a relation
probably over the last six months
I guess mostly after step two is over
okay those are the real big event yes
can you explain a little bit about what
step two so step two is our second
licensing exam for a medical school and
get your degree without it and one of
the biggest exams with my life so I
think yeah so I had a lot a lot of just
a tough time with that exam overall hmm
long I was studying you know again
loneliness it again because in a room by
myself for 16 hours a day
not my favorite time favorite six weeks
yeah and so it sounds like the feelings
of loneliness were pretty Abbey burn
during that time step one as well but
first license Museum same thing
I think a lot of it got a little better
during med school because I started
studying with people before that I did
like a master's program and again I have
that same issue only I was studying by
myself
didn't really enjoy that
do you think I mean do you remember
feeling lonely in college
I don't know not in college I don't know
that was because I was just I was like
always had core framework around me like
you know always had at least one or two
people around at some point or the other
playing video games or just hanging out
reading or something no I don't think I
called you I was probably
so interesting right because now if we
child down into college a little bit
more it sounds like you were hanging out
with people yeah
and yet I guess never encountered a girl
it was usually the same group of people
okay
I didn't go a lot like club activities
very much I didn't do a lot of sports in
college
I went to classes most of the time
sample since I went four of us well I
didn't look I didn't go to parties I
didn't really was a big drinker I didn't
like those big big parties
you think that not being a big drinker
his impact of your ability to find
I never really considered how important
in any way I enjoy may become lots of
red wine so I don't really if someone's
not okay if someone has problem with not
drinking I feel like that's already
someone I'm not going to be yeah with
general sure so what was it that changed
after step two that sort of started to
stop I mean you felt like you had no
value like you got a confidence
I think it was that like I had career
bath I had a goal and I have stuff I'm
working towards and there's nothing
that's gating me from that anymore
I'm not kid anymore I don't think that
was the biggest things like I will have
a good decent career you know I can make
my own success from here on and I'm not
worried I'm worried about
to support basic sporty muscle okay so
it sounds like you got some degree of
Independence yes Barroso and with
independence comes some degree of like
confidence in who you are as a person
um yeah so I mean I think that makes a
lot of sense so let's kind of like track
through and try to see what we can learn
from kangaroos kind of perspective and
experience so the first is that you know
kangaroo has had some feelings of
loneliness and hasn't been able to
really have a serious relationship if we
really think it have yeah so if we if we
think oh man I just want to rewind I
wish there's like no because I was
frustratingly it was during the odd one
a polygon midterm exams - huh it was
right after spring break or during
spring break we were fine until spring
break she went abroad found some guy
there I didn't hear about this for four
weeks afterwards like cake she came back
ignored me for my three weeks I was like
what the heck's going on like I don't
have no idea what just happened and I'm
here for week sent from her friend that
she has a boyfriend that Spring Break
and like you know it wasn't the problem
of her getting the boyfriend I go fine
you know he found someone sure didn't
want me it was that I didn't hear for
four weeks she didn't have the decency
to tell me for that long how do you feel
about that I think that that would that
infuriated me really bad infuriate yeah
in anger anger anger right that's the
yeah yeah and so the you know the
interesting thing if we're just thinking
about this is like right like I
purposely have been waiting for kangaroo
to tell me more about that relationship
not a ski right so like this is where
you know for a lot of a lot of gamers
like their emotions that are pent up but
like you know it just takes some on the
one hand it takes some amount of like
opening up to get getting kind of a
space to talk about it but the other
thing is that I actually don't have to
ask you yeah that's true it just wants
you know it just it just wants to come
out and the funny thing is if we if we
track back to the beginning of the
conversation we asked and grew like why
don't you have a girlfriend is like oh
I'm too busy but the truth of the matter
is like that kind of stuff sits with you
right like that affects like there's no
way I mean and I hopefully the people on
stream caught this there's like there's
no way that that is that still yeah it
does it's still e right and people can
see it and the crazy thing is when it
comes to dating
like you don't even you're not even
aware that that's there mm-hmm but
there's so much there it's like we pop
does it the anger just comes right out
and it's like it's you know this is what
happened in like you remember the
details right she's gone for this many
weeks three weeks she was ghosting me I
heard from her friend that he had a boy
like you know you remember all the
details and it's like seared in your
machina and that kind of stuff is gonna
affect right it's it's gonna weigh on
things like your confidence yeah
which then once your your feeling of
like lack of confidence like is there
then it's gonna sort of latch on to
other things and what kind of talk a
little bit more than that about you know
how that works in terms of your
psychology but before I get to questions
so let's just kind of recap you know so
I think a couple of things for people
who are watching streams so the first
thing is Kangoo thank you for for you
know opening yourself up in a vulnerable
way you know if there are people who are
who are watching stream and want to
share something about their own lives
like we'd love to have you on you know
it can be anonymous or whatever we can
do it over voice chat and if you guys
are in the Boston area and want to come
to my office you're welcome to do that
so thank you very much for sharing that
I think a couple of things that we can
just think a little bit bit about in
terms of what's relevant for gamers the
first thing is that if we think about
how kangaroos mind works you know he he
comes up with the most sterile reason
first in terms of why he doesn't have a
girlfriend and it's because I don't have
time and then you know as things kind of
evolved we begin to see that they're
like different reasons why he doesn't
have a girlfriend there's like more to
it right there's a sense that he's
actually like not a catch which is
changing now and we'll dig a little bit
more into like where confidence comes
from and how you get confident right
because the big thing is that when you
were in college and like you know when
you were asking people out and stuff
like that like you weren't confident
something has changed within you and the
funny thing is it's it's not that you
combated and overcame your idea that
you're not like you're an unattractive
dude which is what most people think
needs to be done right if you think to
yourself oh like I'm not confident
because I'm unattractive the gamers
solution is that I need to go to the gym
and guess who and once I'm
let then the women will like yeah or a
lot of what also happens is is like
gamers that go to play so I saw this in
med school where people think one time a
doctor once I make a ton of money like
the women are gonna lend it not how it
works not oversell and and so if we
really dig down into it we begin to see
that there's there's some degree of like
a lack of confidence and also that you
know there's there's some hurt right
like there's there's even like you can
almost think about it like trauma in
terms of you know you ask someone out
and put you put yourself out there and
you get burned and then if you kind of
think about like a behavioral
perspective as you get burned that's
going to change your behavior and you're
not going to ask someone out again right
because you just don't want to get
exposed to that hurt
and the other thing that we can kind of
think a little bit about is he had this
experience where you know after all of
like you know lack of confidence and not
having direction in life and all that
good stuff
you still managed to find someone and
then what's it like when you manage to
find someone and then they betrayed yeah
and so that too is gonna also like I
mean what impact do you think it has
when when someone gets cheated on your
relationship we're sure you feel anger
but what do you think it does to your
confidence oh it takes it Thanks right
and so the cool thing is that that
kangaroo is sort of starting to come out
of it in terms of starting to recognize
that even if he does have feelings that
are negative towards his self-image the
really cool thing I think here is that
he somehow managed to figure out it's
not that he's realized that those are
wrong it's that he's he's he's starting
to wait those less so in the variable'
of the equation of am i a good boyfriend
or in my boyfriend material
something has happened where kangaroo
physical appearance is started to become
like weighted less let's be kind of
become a fraction of what it was
I think it's I've seen interest in me
even if it's people I'm not I'm not
interested in
I've seen people are you know start
approaching me more Orton or respond
like if I'm talking to more something
and I think I guess it's a poem they
actually do want to talk to me more okay
babe well maybe this is not so bad yeah
I think that's so we can dig into more
unclear whether we're doing this again
but we may have someone else but if
kangaroo comes back maybe we can dig in
a little bit further into you know how
I think the funny thing is that if you
just look statistically people that have
been expressing interest in you since
high school that's just true but most
human beings don't go seven or eight
years without no-one expressing interest
I think what happens with a lot of
gamers is that they're so wrapped up in
their own head that they're unable to
see it and so I think what could be
going on with you is it you know it's
sort of like it's a little bit of like a
chicken or the egg thing where someone
expresses interested in you you gain a
little bit of confidence you get less
concerned about your appearance and then
since you're you know your head is less
up your ass you're able to see that more
people are expressing instant